>> Nina Zakharenko: Another
important thing to do is to
check the status code that
we got back from our API.
If it wasn't actually 200,
then we're not gonna have
a response.json with the items in it.
We're gonna have an error in it instead.
So we just wanna do a little
bit of checking here.
And we're gonna say,
if the status code is not equal to 200,
we're just gonna raise our
own exception and exit out.
We're gonna talk more about
exceptions tomorrow, but
until then I'm just gonna say,
raise a runtime error and
I'm gonna pass in a message that says,
an error occurred.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And oops, I want to
get the status code from my response.
So I want to make sure that I
have that variable defined.
So the status_code = response.status_code,
just like we looked at
when we used the dog API.
Okay, we'll say, an error occurred and
the status code was, and
then we'll just print that out.
And this runtime error, we're not
doing that try-catch sort of thing,
it's just gonna exit our program.
There is really nothing else to do
if the github API returned an error.
Otherwise, we're gonna do this code here.
So technically,
I don't need an else statement here.
If this error occurs it's just gonna quit.
But I like being very
explicit about the situation.
So I'm going to put an else here,
and then tab in this code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
and let's see if this works.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Looks like I did
not define the variable stars right.
So I'm putting in sort,
I think I had stars as a string here and
I just forgot to change it.
So I'm gonna update that
to use the variable.
Let's try it again.
And it works, awesome.
So we are able to use
a pretty powerful API.
The github search API lets you get a ton
of data about publically available repos.
The great thing about this API is
you can use it unauthenticated.
It is really rate limited, so
you can't constantly hammer it,
because that would just be
a denial of service attack, right?
So gitub cuts off
unauthenticated requests for
the search API at about
ten requests per minute.
And for their regular API, I think it's
about 50 or 60 requests per hour until
they cut you off, but
that was plenty for us.
I just wanna show you one
more thing here in this code.
So here I'm saying,
status_code = reponse.status_code.
But just for the time being,
let's say our status_code.
Let's just short circuit this and
say our status code is 500, right?
500 is a server error.
When we do this and
we run our python file,
we'll see an instant,
>> Nina Zakharenko: You'll see this,
Status code was: .
What do you think that means?
>> Student: We didn't have the f.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I forgot my f string,
yeah.
So let me put that in there and
run it one more time.
Okay, we'll see, an error occurred.
Status code was: 500.
We just cleanly exited our program.